Python Features
Python features are nothing but facilities provided by python language to software developers.

1.	Easy or Simple
2.	Free and Open Source
3.	Large Standard Libraries
4.	Platform Independent 
5.	Dynamic
6.	Portable
7.	High Level
8.	Object Oriented
9.	Extensible
10.	Embeddable
11.	Robust

Easy or Simple
Python is easy or simple because it provides the following features which makes python is easy or simple.
1.	Python Syntax is Simple
2.	Python is user/programmers friendly programming language, It allows you to write programs using multiple programming paradigms.
3.	Less Coding, python provides large standard libraries, which provides predefine code.
4.	Automatic memory management. In application development memory managed consist of two things
a.	Allocation of memory
b.	De-Allocation of memory
In python memory management is automatic; python provides a service called garbage collection.

Free and Open Source
Python software is free to download.
Python software can be downloaded from www.python.org


What is open source?
Python language is written in “C” language. 
Python software source code is given to public. If source code is given to public, it can modified and develop new languages, frameworks.

Large Standard Libraries
Python provides large number of libraries. A library is predefined program, with pre-written functionality. Libraries make application development easy.
Python libraries are available in website or repository called,

www.pypi.org

pypi stands python package index
python libraries are divided into two,

1.	Modules
2.	Packages

A module is python program.
A collection of module is called packages.

Platform Independent
Programming languages are two types
1.	Platform dependent languages
2.	Platform independent languages

What is platform?
Platform is software, which provides development environment and execution environment. Operating System is called platform. Operating system acts as an interface between software and hardware.

Platform dependent languages
C,C++ are called platform dependent language.
