Platform Independent
Programming languages are two types
1.	Platform dependent languages
2.	Platform independent languages

What is platform?
Platform is software, which provides development environment and execution environment. Operating System is called platform. Operating system acts as an interface between software and hardware.

Platform dependent languages
C,C++ are called platform dependent language.
In platform dependent languages, development environment and execution environment must same.

Why C,C++ are called platform dependent?
1.	C,C++ compilers generate native code (OR) binary code respective to operating system. This code is platform (OR) OS dependent.
 

2.	C,C++ programming languages data representation is not same for all operating systems.

 


Problem with platform dependent languages
1.	Need to develop same application for every operating system
2.	Increases development cost

Platform independent language
In platform independent languages development environment and execution environment may not be same.

 
What is byte code?
Compiled code of python source program is called byte code.
Byte code is python virtual machine code (PVM).
Byte code is platform independent code.
Byte code is not 0’s and 1’s. Byte code collection of mnemonics.
What is PVM?
PVM stands for Python Virtual Machine. It is software provided by python. PVM having translator called interpreter, which translate byte code in executable machine binary code.

Data representation in python is same for all operating systems.
Advantage of platform independent languages are write once run anywhere or compile once and run anywhere.


Dynamic
Programming languages are two types
1.	Statically typed programming languages
2.	Dynamically typed programming languages

C,C++,Java,C#.net are called statically typed programming languages.
In statically programming languages, variables are created with data type (OR) variables are bind with one data type (OR) variables declaration is required.

Python is a dynamically typed programming language, In python there is no variable declaration. Variables in python not bind with one data type. Its type changes based on value assigned.

Object Oriented Programming
Object oriented is not language; it is a programming paradigm which defines set of rules and regulations for writing programs. All modern language uses OOP for developing applications or programs. It also supports other programming paradigm.

High Level
Portable
Embeddable
Extensible
Robust

